Let's wrap up this section
with one last topic.
The logical volume manager or LVM.
LVM allows grouping
of multiple physical volumes,
which are hard disks
or partitions
into a volume group.
From this volume group,
you can carve out logical volumes.
Fundamentally, LVM would look
something like this.
In this example,
we have three partitions used,
but in reality it can vary
from one disc
or partition to an unlimited
number of disks or partitions.
They can be grouped
to a single volume group.
There are several benefits
of using LVM.
LVM allows the logical
volumes to be resized
dynamically as long
as there is sufficient space
in the volume group.
On systems such as our laptops,
you can have the file systems
such as slash /home/VAR/TMP
created on top of LVM
managed volumes.
This allows them to be
easily resized when needed.
To make use of LVM, you
need to install the package LVM2.
The first step
in configuring LVM is to identify
free disks or partitions
then create physical
volume objects for them.
A physical volume object is how
LVM identifies a disk or a partition.
It is also called a PV.
Here we have one unused disc/Dev/STB.
We will create a physical
volume using this disc.
To do this, we use the PV
create command
with the device path /Dev/STB.
Once this is done,
we can create a volume group
or a VG using
the VG create command.
Let's call the group Hillston_VG.
A volume group can have
one or more physical volumes,
but in this case, we are using
the physical volume /Dev/STB.
To see the details
about the physical volume,
we run the command PV display.
It lists all PVs,
their names, the size
the volume group it is part of.
In this case, since we
have already created
a VG from it, we see
the VG name here.
To see more details of the VG,
we can run the VG display command.
We see the name of the VG,
the total size,
which is the size
of all physical volumes
part of the volume group
the amount of disc space used.
Now we are ready
to create some logical volumes.
We can create logical volumes
using the LV create command.
In this example, we are creating
a one gigabyte volume in the
Kelston_VG volume group.
EL option stands for linear volume,
which is a common type
of logical volume.
This option enables us
to make use of multiple
physical volumes
if available in the volume group
to create a single logical volume.
To see the logical volume,
use the LV display.
To list the volumes, we can also use
the LVS command.
Here, we see the volume
we created, the volume group
it is part of and the logical size
of the volume.
Once the volume has
been created, you can create
a file system on it using the MKFS
command.
We pass in the name
of the logical volume.
Note that the logical volume is
that the path /Dev/Kelston_VG/vol1.
Let's create an EXT 4
file system and then
mount it at /MNT/vol1
using the Mount command.
The logical volume is
now available for use.
Now let's resize the file system
on vol1while it is mounted.
To do this, we will first check if
there is enough space in the VG.
Run the VGS command
to list the VGs and their details.
Since we only used
one gigabyte out of
the available 20 gigabytes,
we are fine here.
Using the LV resize command,
we can increase
the volume by another one gigabyte.
Specify the path
to the logical volume
the additional size
to add to it like this.
However, if you check
the size of the DF command
against slash /MNT/vol1,
you will see that
it is still having a
capacity of one gigabyte.
This is because only
the logical volume
has been resized, not the
file system we created on it.
To do this, make use of
the resize to FS command.
Specify the name
of the file system as an argument.
Once the command is run,
the file system created
inside the logical
volume is resized as well
to match the size we specified
with the LV create command.
One key point to note here
is that we did not have
to stop or unmount the file system
while resizing.
This can be done on the fly
while the file system is in use.
Running the DF command now shows that
the volume size is two gigabytes.
A note before
we conclude this session,
when you run the DF command,
you can see that
the file system mounted
at /MNT/vol1
is /dev/mapper/Kelston_VG/vol1
instead of /dev/Kelston_VG/vol1.
What is this new path
under /dev/mapper?
Both are the same.
The logical volumes with LVM
are accessible at two places.
One under /Dev/Volume Group
the other
under /Dev/mapper
with the name Volume Group
Logical Volume Name.
Well, that brings us
to the end of this section.
Before I let you go,
head over to the hands-on
lab exercises
practice working with LVM.